---
title: Ericâ€™s Tale
layout: post
author: Eric Zhou
permalink: /about/stories/eric/
hero: /img/stock/stock10.jpg
categories: ['posts', 'stories']
---

If you want to read a story about a young lad whose experience with FIRST
totally turned his life around and inspired him to become an engineer, this
probably isn't the one. I was already leaning towards the path of engineering
before high school, being somewhat of a math 'n science person for most of my
life. Although you could say that FIRST was the final nudge that pushed me off
the cliff. Yes, I currently am an engineering major. Just thought I'd get that
out of the way.

But really, the best part of FIRST wasn't really learning about engineering.
Sure, it was very useful. It is very nice to know things such as the fact that
turning a screw clockwise tightens it. Don't laugh. It actually took me a
surprising amount of time to figure that one out. It used to be that I would
turn the bolt both ways, and would continue turning it the way that made it
tighter. But now I know, thanks to FIRST robotics. But wait; then there are
those left-handed screws. Oh dear.

The best part of robotics is really the people, the people that you work with,
build with, and more frequently, goof off with. I mean, build period isn't all
about building a robot. Well, maybe it is, but there's more. Throw twenty crazed
high school teenagers into a room full of aluminum bars and power tools for six
weeks and some fun things are pretty much guaranteed to happen.

So, I could go into all the hard work and perseverance that goes into building
these robots, the rush of build period, and the thrill of competition, but I'll
leave that to my friend Shrenik (henceforth referred to as Shrek), who is,
frankly, much better at writing those sorts of things than I am.

## Polycarb Wings

Make no mistake, designing robot parts for competition is real exciting stuff.
It's just that after the fourth hour on a problem and holes still don't line up
right or you just can't figure out what the spring tension for that bit is
supposed to be, the nerves begin to snap and fray a bit around the edges. And
that was how one windy day, Shrek and I, looking out into the empty parking lot,
decided for some reason that it was a simply fantastic day to go flying. So out
of the room we ran, waving our arms and leaping around, trying to get airborne.
It didn't work. But why? Obviously it was because we didn't have any wings. So
back in we run, only to return outside a few minutes later holding large sheets
of polycarbonate. Running about a while longer we were joined by Bhumit, who
wanted to try also. We handed him the wings and Bhumit too attempted to fly, at
least until our advisor Mr.Shinta yelled at him to get back inside and to put
down the polycarb, as it was expensive stuff.

## Rooftop Expedition

Then there were those days we would all scurry up on top of one of the portables
and just hang out there. Not that there was really much to do on the rooftop,
but just because the view was better than that from ground level and that the
simple fact of being on a roof made it fun. It became a fairly regular activity
until the janitors made us come down.

## Galen's Video

Another time, Galen, an alumnus of the team, came by and expressed his desire to
film our build period for a filming class of his. Several times each week he
would arrive, camera in hand, and start filming. One time, however, he mounted
his camera on a tripod, set it to take a picture every thirty seconds, and then
left, expecting to have some high-quality pictures of the build by the time he
returned. One member of the team, Hawnlay, however, decided that it would be
great fun to play around with the camera. The two of us placed several balls in
front of the camera, and between each thirty-second picture snap, moved them
around so as to convey the illusion of movement. Hawnlay even took a cookie and
held it in front of the camera, taking a bite between each picture, until the
entire thing was eaten. Unfortunately, that part did not make it past Galen's
editing into the final film.

## Ultraman

During my senior year the team experienced a temporary obsession with Ultraman.
I have no idea why, except that perhaps it is because of all the superheroes
ever created, Ultraman is undoubtedly one of the cheesiest. Or it may have had
something to do with the fact that one particular member of our team, Richard,
could do the most fantastic Ultraman impression. This Ultraman obsession got to
the point where we even downloaded the Ultraman theme song, and amazingly,
listened to it all the way through.

## Pranks

Traveling to regional competitions is always fun because we get to stay in a
hotel for a weekend, without adult supervision. Except for the advisors, but
they're cool. During our last regional, a certain PR officer and her friend, who
shall both remain unnamed, came up the bright idea that everyone on the team
should wear purple hair dye during competition. Except that they neglected to
consider the fact that spraying gallons of sticky purple hair dye on black hair
hardly produces any change in color at all. So the idea wasn't welcomed with
extreme enthusiasm, to say the least. In fact, several folks decided that it
would be swell if they could get into the PR officer's hotel room and hide the
hair dye, which they did. Our anonymous PR officer and her friends returned that
night quite confused when they found that not only was the hair dye not where
they had left it, but that several articles of clothing had somehow found their
way into the refrigerator and microwave.

## Aligator Clips

Between going on quests for parts and performing amazing feats of robotics
heroics (cleaning up), another delightful activity that several robotics members
(Rosalind and Danica, mostly) did was to stick alligator clips on people. At
first it was people in general, but soon the clippings began to focus solely on
Shrek. Maybe it was because everyone else was too alert, or maybe it was because
Shrek just had the funniest reactions whenever he found an alligator clip on his
shirt. Who knows.
