---
title: Kathrynâ€™s Tale
layout: post
author: Kathryn Lowe
permalink: /about/stories/kathryn/
hero: /img/stock/stock09.jpg
categories: ['posts', 'stories']
---

Starting high school in 1998 I had band and ballet on my mind. I knew I would
never be a ballerina or musician but those activities challenged my discipline
and creativity. It was band however that led me to FIRST. My sophomore year I
was in the Monta Vista High school Pep Band when were invited to skip a day of
school and play at some robotics competition at Moffett field. At the time
missing school was enough of a reason for me to go. When I arrived in the
massive Hangar One at Moffett and I saw what the robotics competition was all
about I decided that next year I was going to be on the team.

My junior year I became a member of the mechanical engineering division of team
115. I was the only one of my friends to join, the only girl in that division,
and I had no idea how to build a robot. I was fortunate to have great student
leaders on the team that recognized the value of having the new person in the
group that asks a million questions. That year I learned that engineering used
the same creativity I used in the arts and applies it through science. When I
first saw the device I had designed built in action in the competition I was so
proud. I figured if this is what engineering is all about I should seriously
consider it as a career path.  My senior year we won third at the 2001
championship event. Granted, we were just an alternate for the alliance and
never actually played a final round, we where still chosen out of all the teams
there. That year it was not so much the winning that excited me but the prospect
of finally finding something that I new I could be passionate about and actually
do well.

That year I was accepted at the University of Portland School of Engineering for
mechanical engineer. Being a FIRST alumni I had the advantage of being able to
see the real world application of the fundamentals we were learning. I also knew
that engineering takes organizational and business skills. As learned at FIRST,
engineering skill is not enough if you don't have the funds and organization to
back it up. I decided that getting a business minor will help my future career
by not only allowing me to understand engineering but the business behind
engineering companies.

My sophomore year at UP I though I had time to mentor a FIRST team but
unfortunately there were none in Portland. I decided that I should organize one
and I started emailing local schools to see if someone was interested. I finally
got a response back from Mr. Mahr at Franklin High School. He was the metal shop
teacher there and said that he might have some students that were interested. We
were able to get a handful of metal shop students and I convinced an EE friend
to help mentor the programming of the robot. The next year Team 1432 was entered
in the 2004 Robotics competition. At the competition we basically had a box with
wheels able to herd balls. It was however extremely durable and the students all
were able to take turns at the driver's position.  That year we met our goal. We
had the students extremely excited about what they could achieve next year and
more importantly we were able to recruit the valuable help of David Porter at
the competition to help the students achieve those aspirations.

My senior year I was able to help less during the building period but with David
Porter and a few parents we not only had better base, we also had a two-stage
arm. That year the students felt what I had felt 4 years earlier when I saw the
thing that I built win a round. That year we where plagued with problems during
the competition but I was proud that every one of our members knew the robot so
well that they fixed components with lightning speed.

My fifth and final year at UP I was not able to help the team during building
due to my senior design schedule but I left them in the good hands of Bob
Holmstrom. My senior design project is a computerized leg prosthesis with a
three man interdisciplinary team. I am also working on a business plan for the
production of the prosthesis for the School of Business' 16k Challenge. Because
I was no longer actively involved with team 1432, Mr. Porter, who was organizing
volunteers, asked me if I wanted to be a judge at this year's event.  I could
not think of a better way to end this year. After spending two years as a
student member and two years of being a mentor I was finally going to be on the
other side of the organization.

Today I spent the whole day empathizing for the teams that I was judging. I
spoke to students struggling through lack of sleep and a cold to coherently talk
about their team. I realized how much I have grown from the first time I entered
Hangar One at Moffett with my French horn in hand to when I entered the pit
dressed in the blue judges shirt. I know for a fact that I would not be
graduating May 7th with a BS in Mechanical Engineering and a business minor if
it had not been for FIRST. I had all the skills needed to achieve this but FIRST
was my guide. It was through FIRST's values and gracious professionalism that I
was able to make it through college and make every moment count. For that I want
to thank you and all those at FIRST for helping students find and reach their
true potential.

Kathryn Lowe
