---
title: The Tale of the Missing Puppy
layout: post
author: Danica Chang, 2005–2007 Director of Engineering
permalink: /about/stories/storyspot/
hero: /img/stock/stock12.jpg
categories: ['posts', 'stories']
---

This story was written to be presented at the 2005 Awards Night Dinner. In a
symbolic way, it represents the journey the team took that year, and recognizes
each of the graduating seniors. The story contains some references and "inside
jokes" which may only make sense to readers who personally knew the graduating
seniors of 2005. However, I hope that everyone will still be able to relate to
some of the robotics references made. Enjoy!

---

Once upon a time, in the days before the renaissance, there was a little girl
named Grace S. Professionalism. Grace lived in the small village of Tobor Town.
Life wasn't always easy for Grace; with a last name like "Professionalism". She
always ran out of time on tests because she had to take so long to write her
name. "Professionalism" was not the kind of name that could fit on the back of a
jersey. Also, people always made fun of her. She did have one faithful
companion, her puppy Mr. Spot, or Savvy Puppy of Teamwork.

One day Mr. Spot disappeared. As Grace looked franticly through the house, she
found a note saying "X .rD 005,71$ htiw revir yellav ypmaws ot emoc, niaga mih
ees ot tnaw reve uoy fi. topS .rM, god devoleb rouy nekat evah I, Ecarg". "What
could this mean?" thought Grace, "I'll ask my neighbor, Eric Zhou".

"Have you seen Mr. Spot?" asked Grace.

"Oh No!!! Mr. Spot is missing!?!" exclaimed Eric. "This calls for a QUEST!"

"Let's call Uta, she can have a search party organized within 0.00115 seconds".

Sure enough, within milliseconds a mass of villagers gathered outside. There was
William Fuller, Uta Guo, Stephanie Lin, Irem Mertol, and Shrenik Shah, as well
as all the people from the tapestry guild including Victoria Chu, Zoe Doyle,
Yuichi Maeda, Evelyn Wei and their leader Siyu Song.

Showing them the note, Grace asked them, "What does it say?"

"May I see that?" asked Shrenik quickly taking the paper out of Grace's hand.
"It looks like a puzzle. Let's see, does anyone have a pencil?" Quickly,
Stephanie pulls out a green pencil and hands it to Shrenik. "Wow I think it is
written backwards! I think it says, 'Grace, I have taken your beloved dog, Mr.
Spot. If you ever want to see him again, come to Swampy Valley River with
$17,500 —Dr. X'"

"No, I can't believe Dr. X would kidnap Mr. Spot!" shouted Grace.

"We must go rescue Mr. Spot!" said Eric.

"But where are we going to get $17,500?" asked Shrenik turning to look at Irem.

"Getting the money will be no problem. All we need to do is have the tapestry
guild weave a beautiful tapestry and we could easily sell them to raise the
money."
aid Siyu. "I will have my apprentices start weaving a tapestry immediately."

"Well, that's easy enough," said Shrenik. "Now all we have to worry about is
getting to Swampy Valley River which is over 20 miles away (remember they have
to walk all the way there). We will have to go through Camp Auk Lake, Big United
Insects and Lizard Desert, and Snow Acre Cave, which can be very dangerous.
Grace, you are too little to go on such a dangerous quest. You must stay in
Tobor Town and continue your schooling. We will go rescue Mr. Spot, is that
alright?"

"I guess," answered a very distraught Grace. "But what is an Auk?"

"Well, auks are very similar to penguins except they live in the North," said
Uta.

Thus began the villager's heroic quest to rescue Mr. Spot. As they walked down
the road, Victoria, Zoe, Evelyn and Siyu, began discussing what they should
weave into the tapestry.

Zoe suggested, "Let's weave a story about vegetable farmers from Germany,
Ireland, Norway, England, France, and Taiwan, who all work on the same farm."

"How about weaving a story about two girls on a backpacking trip across Europe,"
suggested Victoria.

"I have a great idea, how about we weave the story of our journey into the
tapestry," suggested Siyu and everyone eagerly agreed. So, as they walked, they
began weaving the journey into a tapestry.

Along the road the villagers met Jon Pannell, a handyman and tinker. "Where are
you all going?" asked Jon.

"We are off to rescue Mr. Spot from the evil Dr. X", replied Uta.

"We must go all the way to Swampy Valley River, crossing the treacherous Camp
Auk Lake, Big United Insects and Lizard Desert and Snow Acre Cave," added
Shrenik.

"Wow, that sounds like a long and dangerous journey. May I join?" asked Jon.

"Sure" said all of villagers.

By nightfall, they reached Camp Auk Lake. The next morning, they searched for a
way to cross the river.

"We need a boat," said Shrenik.

"Where are we going to get a boat?" asked Siyu. "There isn't a town for miles
around."

"We can build a raft," suggested William.

"YEAH," exclaimed Eric. "We can use the wood from these trees. And tie them
together with these twines." And so the villagers began building the boat. Jon
used his tools to chop down a tree while Victoria, Zoe, William, Yuichi, Evelyn,
Stephanie and Eric collected vines and tried to tie the wood planks together.
However, no matter how hard Eric and the villagers tried to tighten the knots,
they still fell apart. By noon, they still could not figure out how to get tie
the wood planks together. Just then, Jon came back with the last pile of wood
planks and noticed that all the villagers except Eric were wearily sitting along
the edge of the lake. Eric was still persistently trying to tie the knot, but
still without any luck. Jon walked over to Eric and asked why everyone else was
not working.

"They gave up," replied Eric. "It's no use. We can't get the knots to stay."

"Let me try," suggested Jon, taking two pieces of vine and tying them together
in an intricate series of knots that miraculously did not fall apart. Quickly,
Jon taught all the villagers how to tie the knot and soon they were all busy
tying the raft together. Within a few hours, they finished constructing the boat
and hastily rowed across the lake.

Then began a long march across the Big United Insects and Lizard Desert. They
marched for days. During the day, there were huge swarms of flying insects that
would hover around the villagers and sting them. At night, millions of lizards
crawled out of their holes and covered the desert floor. By the fourth day,
everyone was very tired and yet there seemed to be no end to the desert. It
seemed to stretch for miles and miles.

"I can't go any further," cried Uta. "We have been walking forever and there is
still no sign of Snowy Acre Cave."

"We must keep going," encouraged Eric.

"Please don't give up," begged Stephanie. "We have come so far now, it can't be
much further away."

And just then, the weary villagers saw the first sign that they were near the
edge of the desert. There up ahead was a lone tree. As they continued walking,
they passed more trees, and soon they were out of the desert and climbing up a
steep mountain. As Stephanie passed the trees, she began collecting green leaves
in a huge bag.

"What are you doing?" asked William. "Why are you collecting leaves?"

"Because they are green," answered Stephanie as if that had been the most absurd
question she had ever heard.

"We are almost there," shouted Shrenik. "Snowy Acre Cave is just half way up the
mountain." They continued climbing through patches of snow until they finally
reached the entrance to Snowy Acre Caves. The cave was dark, cold and damp. All
the villagers marched courageously into the cave without looking back. They
marched through small narrow passages, with every footstep echoing off the
walls. As they walked, Stephanie delicately dropped a leaf every few paces.

The villagers walked for hours and soon lost track of the time. Then suddenly
Stephanie said, "I think we have been walking in circle. Look, here is one of
the leaves I had dropped earlier." And sure enough, there was a small green
leaf, just a few feet ahead of Stephanie.

"Oh, no!" said Shrenik, "are you saying we have been going in circles all this
time?!? There must be a passage that branches off from here." And sure enough,
there was a small, narrow dark passage just ahead that branched off from the
main path.

They walked down the passage and soon found themselves walking along the edge of
a huge abyss. All of a sudden, Siyu carelessly swayed off the path, tripped on a
pebble and began falling into the pit. But luckily, he grabbed onto the edge of
the pit and clung on for his dear life. Quickly, Shrenik went to the edge of the
pit and held out his hand to help pull Siyu out from the pit. Just as Siyu
climbed over the edge, the rocks beneath Shrenik's feet crumbed sending Shrenik
falling into the seemingly endless pit, as Siyu and the villagers looked on in
horror.

"OH NO!!" cried the villagers. "Shrenik!!"

There was nothing they could do, so the villagers sorrowfully walked on. Soon
they found the exit to the cave. They walked to a small village by Swampy Valley
River, where Irem sold their beautiful tapestry to a local merchant for $17,500.
Then they continued down the road to Swamp Valley River. All of a sudden,
Stephanie shouts, "Look, it's Shrenik!!" Everyone turned around, and sure
enough, there Shrenik was standing along the side of the road.

"Oh my gosh!" shouted the villagers as they ran to Shrenik. "How did you survive
that fall into the pit?"

Shrenik said, "Well, when I fell into the abyss, I was scared to death, but the
pit was extremely deep and I felt like I was falling for hours. Then, I reached
the bottom of the pit, and was plunged into a huge lake of water. I swam out of
the lake, and found that I was no longer in the cave, but at the bottom of the
mountain. So, I decided I would go to Swampy Valley River to find you guys."

So, the happily reunited villagers continued on their way to Swampy Valley
River. When they got there, they saw Mr. Spot tied up to a tree. Jon quickly
untied the puppy as Irem placed the ransom money on the ground next to the tree.

Eric shouted, "Yay, the quest for Mr. Spot is over!"

"We will need celebrate when we get back to Tobor Town," exclaimed Uta. "I shall
organize a party for the whole village!" And so the villagers happily paraded
back to Tobor Town, where Mr. Spot and Grace reunited and join the other
villagers in a huge party.

<b class="the-end">The End</b>

## Note From the Author

For those of you who didn't figure out all the hidden meaning in the story, I
shall explain...

Almost all the locations form acronyms for a particular time or event during the
robotics season.

+ Camp Auk Lake = CAL = Cal Games
+ Big United Insects and Lizard Desert = BUILD = Build
+ Snow Acre Cave = SAC = Sacramento Regional
+ Swampy Valley River = SVR = Silicon Valley Regional

### Other References

+ Tobor is Robot spelled backwards so Tobor Town is Robot Town
+ Grace S. Professionalism obviously stands for Gracious Professionalism.
  However, Grace also represents the advisors and mentors who get the team going
  on the right path.
+ $17,500 was the team budget for that year
+ Tapestry guild is the Media Division

 Now I can't spoil all the secrets of the story, since some things are meant to
 be kept a secret. But I hope you enjoyed reading my story. I certainly had fun
 writing it.
