---
title: FIRST Aid Kit
layout: document
back:
  url: /resources/
  name: Resources
permalink: /resources/firstaidkit/
categories: ['firstaidkit']
hero: /img/hero/firstaidkit.jpg
nav:
  - name: General Management
    id: general
  - name: Build
    id: build
  - name: Electrical
    id: electrical
  - name: Parts
    id: parts
  - name: Chairman’s Award
    id: chairmans
  - name: Finance
    id: finance
  - name: Media
    id: media
---

# FIRST Aid Kit {#first-aid-kit}

In effort to pass on MVRT's rich history and sustainability plan, MVRT developed
its FIRST Aid Kit. The FRC Manual is designed to provide teams with support in
all aspects of the FRC program, covering information from each of our six
divisions as well preparing and competing at competitions. We hope that every
FRC team can find some piece of useful information from this manual that will
help them improve their sustainability and success.

## General Management {#general}

### Mentors {#general-mentors}

Mentors are very important for building a strong base for the team. Although
some teams can survive with one main mentor, it is good to have several mentors
specializing in different areas to help spread out the work load. Look for
mentors in your school, at local community outreach events, or even a parent of
a team member. A strong mentor base builds the stability of a team as well as a
more widespread foundation of knowledge.

It’s important to keep up strong communication with your mentors. As a simple
form of communication, we suggest developing a Google Group for all of your
mentors and advisors that includes your officer team as well. This allows teams
to easily pass information within the leadership in order to keep people
updated. Information like FIRST Official Updates and emails should be forwarded
within the group along with officer meeting notes and upcoming events and
programs.

A good way to scout out new mentors is often through your school itself. We
suggest contacting your Industrial Technology, math, and science teachers,
especially physics teachers, who may be interested in supporting your team.
Emails are a nice way to contact them, but personal invitations to your team
meetings and work sessions go a long way in developing a relationship with any
mentor. Another source of mentors is often through sponsors or local business
contacts. It’s often difficult to get full-time professionals to spend a lot of
time working on FRC, due to the large time commitment, but invite them to come
for a few hours on the weekend. Team members’ parents are good people to get
involved as well. On the student registration form, be sure to include a space
for parents’ names, emails, and employer name. This helps the team not only with
determining what fields of engineering they may be knowledgeable in but also
provide business contacts for grants and other resources in the future. Some
grants are only available if an employee volunteers with the team, and many ask
how many employees are associated with the team.

Mentors and parents are busy people so you need to ensure you are making the
best use of their time. Try to have tasks laid out so the mentors have
designated areas that they may supervise. By having mentors continually inspect
designs and oversee fabrication and assembly, the team can avoid costly
mistakes. The team’s overall management cannot be done without their support so
be sure to include them on every team decision that needs to be made.

Be sure to be thankful for all the time and effort your mentors put in and
respect their commitment as well. Do not expect more than you would expect of
yourself and make sure to remind them how much you appreciate their help.

### Recruitment {#general-recruitment}

The more dedicated members you have on your team, the more projects your team
can accomplish. Starting teams may be a tough challenge, but once it gets
started, it can grow quickly. MVRT started with only 12 founding members on the
team. Since then, the team has grown to over 100 members on the team. The team
may even start with only one member, but it could grow through word of mouth.
Even with a mentor (Usually a Science or Math teacher) the team can start if the
mentor advertises the club in his or her classrooms. When it comes to
recruitment, it is important to highlight the excitement of FRC, whether this
may be videos of competition or demo-ing a robot.

Some of the recruitment ideas that MVRT has employed in the past have been

 + Promotional Video: Videos can be taken from the FIRST website. Informational
   Meeting/Interest Meeting: The more people know about the team and what it
   does, the more their interest will spike.
 + School Demo
 + Fliers
 + Talking in classrooms

Recruitment is a big priority for teams because a strong member base will be
beneficial for the team.

### Publicity {#general-publicity}

#### Get your team noticed! {#general-publicity-noticed}

After you get your team on stable ground, try getting the team noticed by the
outside community and your fellow robotics teams. Some advantages to getting
your team noticed include getting outside support, opportunities for grants,
favoritism during competitions, and an overall good image of the team.

#### Attend local events {#general-publicity-events}

MVRT goes to local events such as the Fall Festival and local school events to
demo our robot and spread the message of FIRST. Email the event coordinator to
see if you can get a booth to publicize your team.

#### Volunteer at other competitions {#general-publicity-volunteer}

Many FTC and FLL competitions need a lot of volunteers to run smoothly. Email
the region’s coordinator to see what your team can do to help. This would allow
the team to get recognition in many fields. MVRT has volunteered in many events
including FLL competitions in the area.

#### Demos {#general-publicity-demos}

MVRT demos our robot for many different reasons. We spread the message of FIRST,
look for potential mentors and sponsors, and support our current sponsors. MVRT
holds many demos throughout the year, including at the Tech Museum Robotics
Week, the BAE Toys for Tots demo, and demos at the facilities of our sponsors.
See what events are going on in your community and find out if a robotics
demonstration would be appropriate.

#### Help other teams {#general-publicity-help}

MVRT helps mentor and start several teams in the California area. This earns you
a lot of references that help you gain credibility. Reach out and email other
teams in the area, especially rookie teams, to find out what your team can help
with.

## Build {#build}

### What it should look like {#build-picture}

|----------------------------------------------|
| Week   | What should be completed            |
|----------------------------------------------|
| Week 1 | Ideas/Prototyping                   |
| Week 2 | Prototyping/design review           |
| Week 3 | CAD model/machining/finalize design |
| Week 4 | Assemble/troubleshoot any problems  |
| Week 5 | Code/wire/program                   |
| Week 6 | Driver practice                     |
|========|=====================================|

Ideally, the team should be working for about 16-20 hours a week; how to
distribute that chunk of time will be up to the team and their mentors. Every
day, all the different groups should be talking with each other. The space needs
to be distributed between the different manipulators as well as the electrical
components. When distributing space for electrical components, extra space
should be left in between the different parts to make sure each part can be
reached easily once all the manipulators are put on. When designing the
manipulators, there will be trade-offs on how much space can be given to each.
In addition, you should include the sensors in your manipulator designs to save
time in the long run.

#### What to do if your team falls behind {#build-picture-behind}

Behind is really defined by the team; however, if the team is lagging by two
weeks or more, something should be done to get up to speed. One method is making
compromises, such as taking out parts that are more time consuming than they are
necessary. In addition to that, build hours should be extended daily so members
have more time to work on the robot. If brainstorming for ideas is the reason
that the team is behind, just stick to the kitbot; it’s relatively easy to
assemble so that will play a part in saving time as well.

### Mechanical {#build-mechanical}

 + Keep the design simple
 + Try your hardest to do a good 6WD. This will make you stand out from all the
   other teams. The kitbot is already set up for a 6WD with dropped center
   wheels.
 + Don't go all out on a design, make sure you work towards consistently earning
   a medium amount of points for your team rather than inconsistently earning a
   higher amount of points.
 + Finish the robot mechanically by week 4. Driver practice is 50% of how well
   you do at competition.
 + **Get help from other teams.** Veteran teams and mentors are the best
   resource a rookie team has to being successful. Don't be shy because they're
   always willing to help.
 + Mentors, mentors, mentors. A huge part of a rookie team's success is having
   mentor(s) who are knowledgeable in engineering, knowledgeable in FRC, or
   both. They will be seen as the authority figures so the team would have a
   strong leadership. These mentors and help from veteran teams are both very
   important.
 + Use the stuff you get in the kit. You paid for it, and it works.
 + Don't burn the team out. Work around 20 hours per week total and extend hours
   at the end. Be sure people get days off, especially if they are not needed on
   certain days. For example, a mechanical member can get time off after the
   robot is built while the electrical member programs the robot.
 + Have a working driving base by the end of week 2
 + For the first year, try to CAD everything, but ultimately, drawing parts is
   faster, especially if the part is really simple.

### Build Logs {#build-logs}

Build logs are notes that are taken at the end of every day of build to see how
far the team has progressed, problems that the team encountered during the day,
and where the team is at in the big picture.

What needs to be noted

 + Progress on individual projects
 + Parts that are needed
 + Any issues surrounding personnel
 + What is planned for the next day and for the next week
 + If some compromises have to be made (This would be up to the officers and the
   mentors)

#### Who should take notes and have access to this? {#build-logs-who}

Build logs should be written by the lead in charge of engineering and kept
within the team, preferably between mentors and officers, because build logs
sometimes contain sensitive details that teams don’t necessarily want to post on
their website. If the team wants to show where they are at to parents, sponsors,
or members that regularly read their website, they can consider putting some
general progresses and such on a blog or something of that sort on their
website.

## Electrical {#electrical}

### Programming {#electrical-programming}

The first step in choosing which language to program your FRC robot is to find
students and mentors with programming experience. If they have extensive
experience in one of the languages supported by FRC, then that is probably the
best one to choose.

#### LabVIEW {#electrical-programming-labview}

LabVIEW programs are collections of “virtual instruments,” or vi’s. Each vi
consists of a front panel--with switches, knobs, graphs, and indicator
lights—and a block diagram consisting of data wires that connect to basic logic
elements and other vi’s. Data flows into a vi, where it’s modified, and flows
out again.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Positive</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>In general, easier to people who have not programmed because it presents the information graphically</li>
          <li>More user friendly for beginners</li>
          <li>Adding even complex meters and controls to the front panel is easy.</li>
          <li>Easy to debug</li>
          <li>Real-time analysis without re-downloading the code</li>
          <li>Data can be probed while running.</li>
          <li>Example code for the sensors and motors includes wiring diagrams</li>
          <li>Does not require a separate development environment. The vi is the development environment.</li>
          <li>Is inherently multi-tasking. The user does not have to control threads.</li>
          <li>Automatic memory management</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Downside</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Slow uploading time to the robot</li>
          <li>Fewer people are familiar with LabVIEW and its dataflow computing than are familiar with C++ or Java.</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Resources</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><a rel="external" target="_blank" href="https://decibel.ni.com/content/docs/DOC-8923">National Instruments’ FRC 2011 Training Material and Resources</a></li>
          <li>Tutorials and videos for students and teachers: <a rel="external" target="_blank" href="http://www.frcmastery.com/">FRCMastery</a></li>
          <li><a target="_blank" href="/resources/trainings/">MVRT Resources</a></li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### C++ {#electrical-programming-cpp}

C++ and Java are both derived from C. They are the most commonly used
programming languages in the world.

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Positive</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Fast uploading time to the robot</li>
          <li>Familiar language to some people</li>
          <li>Easy for experienced programmers to build sophisticated programs</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Downside</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>The FRC C++ system uses the Eclipse/WindRiver development environment, which is extremely complicated. There is a steep learning curve required just to figure out how to use it.</li>
          <li>Harder to debug</li>
          <li>Hard to get data back in a visual format that is easy to understand</li>
          <li>Debugging requires recompiling the code.</li>
          <li>Multiple threads are controlled by the programmer rather than the system.</li>
          <li>User must manage memory. Easy to have memory leaks.</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Resources</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><a rel="external" target="_blank" href="http://firstforge.wpi.edu/sf/docman/do/downloadDocument/projects.wpilib/docman.root.c_and_java_documentation/doc1197">C/C++ Getting Started Guide</a></li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Java {#electrical-programming-java}

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Positive</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Fast uploading time to the robot</li>
          <li>Familiar language to many people especially because of Computer Science classes provided in some schools</li>
          <li>Easy for experienced programmers to build sophisticated programs</li>
          <li>Automatic memory management</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Downside</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Harder to debug</li>
          <li>Hard to get data back in a visual format that is easy to understand</li>
          <li>Easier to debug than C++</li>
          <li>Multiple threads are controlled by the programmer rather than the system.</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Resources</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li><a rel="external" target="_blank" href="http://firstforge.wpi.edu/sf/docman/do/downloadDocument/projects.wpilib/docman.root.c_and_java_documentation/doc1199">Getting Started with Java for FRC</a></li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

#### Python {#electrical-programming-python}

<table>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Positive</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Familiar language to some people. Widely used in academic & scientific communities</li>
          <li>In many ways, it is easier to use than C++ or Java.</li>
          <li>Errors do not crash the robot.</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <th scope="row">Downside</th>
      <td>
        <ul>
          <li>Need to write extra code for it because very little pre-written code</li>
          <li>Must be familiar with C++ in order to use some features and to modify code</li>
          <li>More obstacles to overcome and much more challenging because not an official language of FIRST</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

### Other Factors {#electrical-factors}

Consider what languages your team already knows and what computer & mentoring
resources are available to you.

 + Robot programming is different from other code so regardless of previous
   knowledge, there will be substantial learning involved.
 + All robot programming involves working with hardware: reading sensors and
   running motors, cameras, & pneumatic solenoids. There is no “pure”
   programming.

## Parts {#parts}

### Mechanical {#parts-mechanical}

There are FIRST sponsored vendors where you can buy most of the major mechanical
components. Andymark is the vendor where you can buy several different types of
motors as well as the gearboxes for those motors, but for general parts such a
screws, nuts, and bolts you can either go to a local hardware store or you can
use Macmaster-Carr where you can get exact dimensions needed for your part and
be open to a larger variety of selection. Macmaster is useful for almost all the
hardware you will need on your robot. For parts such as motors and gearboxes,
remember that FIRST allows you to use only certain brands of motors and
sometimes, specific gearboxes. Remember to consult with the rules before buying
a specialty part. You can buy pneumatics from Bimba which is another FIRST
sponsored company.

Grainger has local stores and a significant online presence. They have a huge
selection, but be prepared to spend a fair amount of time at the counter when
you order.

Everybody knows about Home Depot, Lowes, and Orchard Supply (OSH). Since the
previous version of this document, OSH’s hardware selection significantly
declined and its prices have significantly increased. Local ACE and True Value
hardware stores, by comparison, have become much better. Many of them have a
larger selection than the big box stores, and they are better organized. But if
you can, make larger orders of screws & nuts from McMaster.

Although we don’t use them too much, Fastenal carries a large selection of nuts
and bolts. They have stores all over the Bay Area, including San Jose, Fremont,
and Palo Alto.

For weird and obscure hardware that you need immediately, Olander Hardware is
the place to go. Their prices are high, but if you need something, they are
likely to have it. Their address is 144 Commercial Street, Sunnyvale, CA
94086-5298. Commercial Street is off Kifer between Fair Oaks and Lawrence
Expressway. The small sign near the side door of the warehouse is easy to miss.
Their hours are M–F from 8AM–5PM.

We buy our aluminum and steel from either McMaster or Alan Steel. Alan Steel is
has excellent prices and an incredible selection. 505 E Bayshore Rd Redwood
City, CA 94063 (650) 369-2526. Hours are Mon-Fri 8 am - 4:30 pm.

We end up buying a lot of Lexan polycarbonate plastic sheeting. TAP Plastics
carries an excellent selection, and will cut sheets to size for no extra cost.
Note: acrylic shatters, so you must use polycarbonate. There are retail
locations all around, including San Jose and Fremont. They are closed on Sunday.

Port Plastics has lower prices on full sheets of polycarbonate. They also carry
plastic tubing and cable management supplies. 550 E. Trimble Road #A, San Jose,
CA 95131. As a normal industrial supplier, they are open M F.

### Electrical {#parts-electrical}

AndyMark the company that hosts FIRST Choice, makes gear boxes and wheels for
FIRST robots. It also supplies the miscellaneous electronic parts for FRC
robots, such as the power distribution board and the digital sidecar. Their
customer service is first-rate. If you decide to buy extra parts, however, order
them as soon after kickoff as you can. They may run out.

The Jaguar motor controller is found here. In the past, TI has provided a link
for FRC teams to buy Jaguars at discount (through Digi-Key). Remember, you need
one controller per electric motor. Some teams prefer the simpler (and some say
more robust) Victor 884 motor controllers. Many teams have found that each
season they burn out at least one motor controller, so it is worthwhile to
have a few spares.

Jameco Electronics runs both a mail order and a retail operation. If you’re
desperate, their retail store is open 8AM-5PM M-F. Their address is Jameco
Electronics 1355 Shoreway Road, Belmont, CA 94002.

Fry’s has a spotty selection of electronics, so we usually have to try other
places for components and connectors. Likewise, RadioShack, but if there’s one
near you, it’s open late, and it just might have that resistor or wire you need.

Anchor Electronics is a small store at 2040 Walsh Ave. in Santa Clara, just west
of Scott Blvd. They have a large selection of components, switches, and
connectors. Their hours are 7:30AM-4PM M-F & 10AM-3PM on Saturday.

If you like browsing surplus equipment, then HSC Electronics is the place for
you. Open 8AM-7PM M-F & 9AM-5PM Sat. 3500 Ryder St. Santa Clara. Note that HSC
advertises nationally, so presumably their parts are considered COTS parts.

Even stranger surplus electronics can be found at Weird Stuff Warehouse at 384
West Caribbean Drive in Sunnyvale. Open 9:30AM-6PM M-S & 11AM-6PM Sunday.

For mail order, both Mouser Electronics and Allied Electronics have huge
selections and will regularly send you their large print catalogs. They ship
promptly. Newark electronics and Arrow are also places to look for that special
component. Note that priority shipping can be quite expensive.

Chief Delphi Swap—On the Chief Delphi website, a small button near the top says
CD-Swap; click on this to see what equipment various teams are willing to swap.

The wires that go from the digital sidecar to the speed controllers are 3 wire
flat cables called PWM cable (or servo wire). Hobby shops that specialize in
radio-controlled cars & planes sell them as servo extensions. If you decide to
make your own, hobby shops sell servo wire and servo connectors & crimps (get
Hitec or universal, not Futaba). You can also get the connectors and pins at
Jameco (part# 157383, Connector, 1",1RW,3PIN HSG) for less than the hobby shops
sell them. These connectors will also work on miniature pins for connecting
extra switches to the Driver Station.

FIRST has relaxed the rules for 2011 and you can now use any servo that does not
exceed the power limitations. Our choice has been the Hitec HS-485B. California
Hobbies carries them. They are located at 1702 Meridian Ave. Suite I San Jose,
CA 95125 (408) 448-1449. Open 7 days a week. It also has a large selection of
wires, screws, plastic, and aluminum hobby parts. Another good choice is Aero
Micro Located at 2090 Duane Ave Santa Clara, CA 95054 (408) 496-6699. Open Tues.
through Sun. Aero Micro specializes in radio controlled airplanes and
helicopters, but it does not carry much in the way of general hobby supplies.

The digital sidecars have a more secure connection for PWM cables. If you want
to use those, the connector is a Molex 22-01-2037 housing and crimp terminals,
also available at Jameco. To connect either type of cables to the metal pins,
you’ll need a crimping tool, but you don’t really need the $300 crimping tool
listed for Molex.

An excellent description of how to crimp your own PWM cables is from Hansen
Hobbies. They sell the wire, the connectors, and crimping tools.

The Sauro CTF040V8 connectors on the power distribution block and the cRIO are
available from AndyMark. They also carry the Wago connectors needed for much of
the control system components.

If you use the I2C port, for a Lego NXT compass, just buy the cables. You can
get them from Lego or HiTechnic.

### General {#parts-general}

We go through hundreds (maybe thousands) of zip ties each season. You will be
repeatedly cutting them off & reinstalling them. We usually get them from Fry’s
Electronics.

We’ve used CPVC piping for prototyping, etc. It’s smaller & lighter than regular
PVC pipe, and it doesn’t shatter. OSH and Lowe’s carry it.

You will need lots of double-stick Velcro, both wide and narrow. OSH, Lowe’s,
Home Depot, & McMaster carry it. We use it to hold the robot controller, the
Speed Controllers, the Spike Relays, and all sorts of other things.

Heat shrink tubing, available at Fry’s & elsewhere, is great for insulating wire
connections and providing a bit of extra protection. While you can use a
miniature butane torch to heat it, a heat gun is a better bet.

Last year we started using red/black zip cord for robot wiring. The wires are
bonded together, which makes routing and identification much easier. We also
connect the wire to components with Anderson Powerpole connectors. Our source is
Powerwerx in southern California. Shipping is prompt and reliable. Note that
priority shipping for wire will cost more than the wire itself.

If you decide to use the window motors shipped in the kit of parts, you may want
to know about the power plugs that aren’t included. They are available at Mouser
Electronics. They are Delphi Automotive Connectors: (Mouser part#
829-12129847-B) the Secondary lock (Mouser part# 829-12077904-B) and female
crimps (Mouser part# 829-1212943). You need all three parts. Use a standard
crimping tool for the crimps.

If you are interested in using Bosch aluminum extrusions, the local supplier is
Valin. The local office is 555 E. California Ave. Sunnyvale, CA 94086. (408)
730-9850. For teams interested in using Bosch, we are willing to advise you on
ordering a selection of extrusions and connectors to get you started. You can
view the online Bosch catalog here. Note that there can be a 2 week lead time
for Bosch orders.

You may need a 6 ft. folding table for competitions. Available at Home Depot,
Office Depot, etc. You will also need a heavy-duty extension cord (and many
people recommend a GFI as well) and at least 3 or 4 plug strips. You’ll need
them for battery chargers, the laptop, soldering irons, and the Operator
Station.

#### Batteries {#parts-general-batteries}

12V battery. The kit-of-parts comes with only one battery. You will need two at
an absolute minimum, and three would be better. Note that you must use the
battery brand and model specified by FIRST. FIRST allows two different brands of
batteries MK ES17-12 12VDC non-spillable lead acid battery, OR one EnerSys NP
18-12 (and only those brands and models). They are available through AndyMark.

Quick release battery connectors. The kit-of-parts provides two pairs of quick
release connectors, but you will want to buy more, including one for the battery
charger. These are Anderson Power Products SB50 power connectors. Part # 6331G1
from Allied Electronics or Powerwerx. You may also want some spare #6 contacts,
part # 903G1. It will require soldering or a heavy-duty crimper.

#### Computers {#parts-general-computers}

You pretty much have to have a laptop for programming the robot. It’s much
easier to get the laptop to the robot than getting a huge robot over to a
desktop computer.

Note that the CompactRio has a DB9 serial connector on it for console output. If
your laptop does not have a serial port, you’ll need a USB to serial converter
and a serial crossover cable. They’re available at Fry’s for about $20.

We do most of our testing through the Wi-Fi interface. Even so, you probably
want to have at least one longish Cat 5 Ethernet cable for tethered testing.

## Chairman's Award {#chairmans}

Chairman’s is divided among three components. There is an essay submission, a
presentation, and video submission. In order to compete for Chairman’s, you are
required to submit all three portions. In general, the essay will be due around
the time of the Ship date, while the presentation and video need to be prepared
by the Regional that you decide to submit Chairman’s for. Chairman’s can be
submitted at only one regional and can be submitted through STIMS account that
your team leader should have access to.

### Essay {#chairmans-essay}

The Chairman’s essay is the most effective way at telling the judges a concise
record of your team’s accomplishments in the past year. We will generally start
by developing a theme for our entire submission. In the past we have chosen
themes such as “Students Learn, Teach, Give, and Spread” and broke up our essay
into four components. In each component we will explain the different aspects of
our team that will fit inside it. For example, within the Students Learn
component, we talk about our trainings, our mentors, and team structure and how
students on the team learn through these aspects. After developing a theme, list
all the events and aspects of your team that would like to talk about in the
essay. Start to categorize them into each section of your theme and create a
general outline. Remember while doing this, to mark references for all the
events who you can talk to and get information and personal experiences from.
This will help you write the essay from a personal point of view. Once a general
outline has been complete, begin writing each section of your essay. Save your
introduction and conclusion for the end. You will want to keep your word count
in mind, but don’t let it restrict you on your first draft. Keep in mind that
this essay will require many edits from many different people before eventually
being submitted. Once you have completed each of the sections within the essay,
start working on the introduction and conclusion. Make sure that your
introduction hooks the judges and gets them interested in your team and makes
your theme very clear. After you have a working draft, start to cut sections to
reduce your word count to below the maximum. Make sure that during the editing
process, you get it read by mentors, alumni, and fellow members. Make sure you
leave about two weeks before the deadline for editing and revisions. After
submitting your essay it’s time to move on to preparing for you presentation.

### Presenataion {#chairmans-presentation}

At the regional that you submit Chairman’s to, you are required to give a 5
minute presentation. Keep in mind that the 5 minutes you get start the moment
you enter the room so don’t attempt to bring in any material that would require
you to spend more than a few seconds to set up. In the past, we have bought
printed poster boards as visuals during our presentation. Make sure that you
limit the information on your visuals and keep the judges interested in what you
are saying rather than the visuals you have brought with you. Stick to your
theme while presenting. Try to focus on the most important segments of your
submission as five minutes is not enough time to cover everything that your team
does. You are allowed three people in judging room so divide the speaking time
as evenly as possible. If you are using boards, make sure you are rotating who
is changing the boards/flipping to a new one, so that the same person who is
speaking is not changing the boards. Try to include personal anecdotes while
presenting as it adds depth to the presentation and shows how your team and its
events and programs have impacted you and the people of your community. A good
idea is to complete a working presentation about a week before the regional and
present it to as many people as possible such as mentors and alumni, not only to
gain feedback, but to gain practice presenting in front of people. You want to
look as unpracticed as possible, while showing as little flaws as possible. In
simple terms, being relaxed and comfortable while presenting gives the judges
the best impression of you. Judges also like to ask questions to test that all
the presenters know everything about the team. Sometimes they will ask questions
to a presenter on what another presenter said. Make sure you know everything
about your team forwards and backwards. At the end of the regional, you will
receive a feedback sheet based on how you did. Use this as a building block for
future years-it took us eleven years to win Chairman’s; don’t be discouraged if
you don’t win right away.

### Video {#chairmans-video}

In addition to the presentation and essay, all teams are required to submit a
video at the regional. You video adds depth to your entire submission as it will
show the emotions of individuals through all the events that you do. It’s
important that your team makes a clear plan and timeline when creating the
video. Scripting and storyboarding should take approximately two weeks, filming
approximately two weeks, and editing 4 weeks. That will generally give you 8
weeks to complete your video which puts you right around the time of the
regional that you might submit for Chairman’s. Depending on the regional, you
might have to adjust that timeline. Remember to be in line with the theme
discussed in the essay. If at all possible, do interviews with an HD Camcorder
and use a professional video editing software such as Adobe Premiere Pro CS5 to
edit your videos. It will give you the best quality when exporting your videos
and burning them onto the DVDs.

### Binder {#chairmans-binder}

In addition, MVRT creates a binder which comprises of everything that the team
does. It includes all the manuals, award submissions for the year, event
descriptions and pictures, letters of recommendations, and news articles that
MVRT has been featured in. It is a record of the team’s structure and history in
a presentable binder. We hand the judges this binder as we present Chairman’s as
a supplement for them to review and consider while judging us.

## Finance {#finance}

### Grants {#finance-grants}

#### Step 1: Paperwork {#finance-grants-paperwork}

To qualify for most grants, you must be a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization, and
you must have a Federal Tax Identification number. Also, every US-based FRC team
must fill out a W-9 to FIRST Finance annually in order to accept any funds on
behalf of the team. You can find this form and who you should send it to on the
FIRST website.

#### Step 2: Finding Companies {#finance-grants-finding}

When searching for sponsors, it’s ideal if you have a contact within the
company. If someone you personally know works for the company, your chances of
getting a sponsorship increase substantially.

Also, look around to see if the companies you’re targeting support other FIRST
teams. Technology based companies, for example, generally tend to cater their
philanthropy department towards STEM (science, technology, engineering, math)
programs such as FRC teams. There’s a page on FIRST’s website titled “FIRST
Robotics Competition Team Sponsors” that has a comprehensive list of companies
that support FRC teams. If the company isn’t listed there, chances are, they
won’t sponsor you. Unless if, of course, you have a contact in the company.
Also, research what types of FRC teams the companies tend to sponsor. NASA and
JCPenney, for example, almost exclusively sponsor rookie teams.

Sometimes companies will even find you--they may send you a letter with an
invitation code to their cybergrants page after competitions.

#### Step 3: Writing the Grant {#finance-grants-writing}

First off, keep the deadlines in mind! The deadlines generally have no
exceptions so make sure you turn in your grants on time. They’re also usually
towards the end of the calendar year because that’s when companies have leftover
money. Most companies have a mission statement that states they donate to
nonprofit causes, because it is good publicity. In order to live up to this,
these companies donate a certain percentage of their profits to philanthropic
causes. This is why if you ask for funding from a new company, it is beneficial
to ask at the end of each fiscal quarter. Keep the style of writing
professional, and be sure to mention FIRST. Some grants will be done online;
others must be submitted as a hard copy, and even some as both. As far as
content goes, that’s relative to what your team does and/or how long your team’s
been around.

Feel free to contact finance at mvrt for any help with grant editing.

### Sponsors {#finance-sponsors}

#### Step 1: Maintaining Relationships with Sponsors {#finance-sponsors-relationships}

You’re obviously going to want to have sponsors come back next season and
sponsor you again. Business thank you letters should be sent right after you
receive any financial support. Since we live near many of our sponsors, we
sometimes also go to the corporate sites of our sponsors (we toured Intuitive
Surgical), volunteer at events they host (we volunteered at BAE Systems’s Toys
for Tots), or have them come in to give presentations (Lockheed Martin gave a
career presentation to us).

At the end of an FRC season, you should send something out showing your
appreciation. Aside from sending out a formal business thank you letter, we also
include something like a yearbook signing page where members can write about how
the company provided a unique opportunity for the members by sponsoring us, how
the members will consider pursuing a STEM field in the future possibly working
for said sponsor, etc. We also mail out our team’s shirt because it has the
sponsor’s logo on the back.

Furthermore, most grants will ask you for a grant impact report—meaning you
have to write about what you’ve accomplished the past season, obstacles you
encountered, and how you plan to overcome them by making changes for the next
season.

#### Step 2: Sponsor Recognition {#finance-sponsors-recognition}

Our team organizes our sponsors into sponsor levels, based on how much they
donate to the team. The more money they donate, the more recognition they
receive from MVRT.

|-------------------
| Level | Benefits |
|-------------------
| Bronze ($25+) | Your name/logo is shown on our award-winning website. |
| Silver ($100+) | Your name/logo appears on our t-shirts, which is worn by our 100+ members. |
| Gold ($500+) | Your name/logo appears on our banners, which are shown as backdrops at competitions. |
| Platinum ($1000+) | Your name/logo appears on our robot, which is used at competitions and community demos. |
| Diamond ($2000+) | Our team registers you as a major sponsor. |
|==================

### Finance Packet {#finance-packet}

Be sure to check out the <a target="_blank"
href="http://www.mvrt.com/notes/Finance%20Packet%202011-12.pdf">MVRT</a> Finance
Packet, which we present at competitions and demos to help people understand our
team and how we budget everything within it. It’s often useful to have a
business plan and budget for grants and presentations as sponsors require or
encourage you to submit them.

## Media {#media}

### Members {#media-members}

Media Divisions in FIRST teams historically have had logistics problems because
of too little members. Although there’s really no way you can force more members
to join the Media Division, there are steps that you can take to make sure you
can keep whoever you get.

Make sure trainings are hands-on. No one likes listening to hour-long lectures.
If you’re going to teach the whole time, at least make sure you get them on the
computers so they can do it along with it.

Also, make sure you don’t waste time during trainings. Have new members jump
straight into the animation software as fast as possible, because then they’ll
see Media as much more exciting and cool and want to continue.

Don’t forget to talk to the members and learn their names. It sounds stupid, but
sometimes having that personal connection will cause new members to keep on
going in a division.

### Animation {#media-animation}

Here’s a sample calendar of how to plan “animation seasons”. The numbers in
parenthesis are approximate numbers of hours that should be spent on each part
of the Main Animation process. For the Safety Animation, simply halve the
suggested time of each stage (except for the brainstorming part).

|--------------------
| Time Range | Tasks |
|--------------------
| First Day (2 hours) | Members meet, brainstorm, and plan a storyboard for the animation. Make sure the prompt is actually being followed. Then break down each scene in the animation into objects that have to be created for them, and assign those out to media members. |
| First to Third Weeks (9 hours) | Create the models. At the end of all of this, you should compile all of the objects into each scene of the animation. |
| Fourth Week (3 hours) | Animate/keyframe the models. |
| Last Week | Render the scenes, put the video together, and upload it to where it needs to go. Having one week to do all of this ensures that any hitches that have occurred will not prevent your animation from being submitted. |
|===================
