---
title: Divisions
layout: null
---

# Divisions

The Monta Vista Robotics Team consists of both an Engineering branch and an
Operations branch. The Engineering branch is made up of a Mechanical division
and an Electrical division. The Operations branch includes Media division,
Public Relations division, Finance division, and Documentation division.

## Mechanical

The Mechanical Division is in charge of the design, fabrication, and assembly of
the robot. During the first couple of weeks of the build season we prototype the
different possible designs of the robot (prototypes are usually made out of
basic materials: wood, PVC, Aluminum Extrusion, etc.) and present them at design
reviews. Then, we finalize the designs, using Solidworks (our 3D CAD modeling
program), and make the final versions. At the end, we put it all together as one
mechanically complete robot.

## Electrical

The Electrical Division is in charge of programming and wiring the robot.
Members take in the software design and sensor implementation on the robot to
make the “brains” of the robot. During the first weeks of the build season we
will begin to work on wiring and programming the swerve drive along with
learning how various sensors work. Later on, we will begin working on drive code
and finalizing the sensors we use. In the last weeks, we will finish wiring the
robot and programming the manipulators.

## Media

The Media Division creates all of the graphics for the team. Before build
season, we complete a 30-second safety animation to promote safe practices and
teach members animation. The division continues animating throughout build to
compete in a FIRST team-sponsored animation competition. Additionally, during
the first weeks of the build season we teach members Inkscape and design
T-shirts and buttons for the team using that software. Throughout build season,
we take on small graphics projects, such as letter templates or panel design for
the robot.

## Finance

The Finance Division provides the funds for the team. Throughout the year we
apply for grants from various companies such as BAE Systems, Google, and IBM as
our primary source of funding. We also obtain funding from donations,
application fees, and fundraising such as SCRIP. We keep the team on a tight
budget especially during build season. For regional competitions, we also apply
for the Entrepreneurship Award that rewards teams that are well structured to be
able to finance its operations.

## Public Relations

The Public Relations Division is the integral part of spreading engineering
throughout the community. We hold events throughout the Bay Area to reach out to
different groups and teach people about not only robotics but the fields of
science and technology. We uphold the ideals of FIRST by starting youth robotics
programs at local schools and helping businesses and programs internationally.
We work closely with other teams, divisions, and sponsors to best promote both
gracious professionalism and engineering to everyone.

## Outreach

The Outreach Division spreads the message of FIRST within our community to
teach people about not only robotics but the fields of science and technology.
We uphold these ideals by starting youth robotics programs at local schools
through ThinkFIRST, FLL, KwanAcademy, FutureStars, and many others. We work
with other teams to promote gracious professionalism, STEM education, and
engineering to our community.

## Documentation

The Documentation Division is responsible for documenting precious memories of
the team. We capture moments at competitions, events, and build with photos,
videos, and words. We also distribute information about outreach events to the
team. We are also responsible for updating the MVRT Blog and creating the team
newsletter that is distributed to members, parents, sponsors, and mentors. In
addition, we work closely with the Public Relations Division to create the
Chairman’s Video during build and the Media Division to create posters, flyers
and more.
