---
title: Games
layout: null
---

# Games

Every year, <i class="first">FIRST</i> creates a new game which challenges FRC
teams to build a robot to compete in the game. Games from previous years are
listed below.


## Recycle Rush

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hTyCIYZQ_1s). Recyle Rush
is played with two alliances consisting of 3 teams each. Teams score points by
stacking totes on  scoring platforms and topping of the stacks with recycling
bins. Teams must also dispose of liter in the form of pool noodles by inserting
them into the bins.


## Aerial Assist

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oxp4dkMQ1Vo). Aerial
Assist is played by two competing alliances of three robots each on a flat 27x54
foot field using large, two foot diameter excercize balls. The goal is to score
points by getting the ball into the goals on the two ends of the field. There
are two eleven foot wide "high" goals about seven feet off the ground which are
about three feet tall. There are also two "low" goals that are small boxes on
each alliance's side of the field. The high goals are worth more points than the
low goals. The field also has a truss: a horizontal bar set 5 feet off of the
ground in the center of the field.


## Ultimate Ascent

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wa5MGEZNrf0). Ultimate
Ascent is played by two competing alliances on a flat, 27 x 54 foot field.  Each
Alliance consists of three robots, and they compete to score as many discs into
their goals as they can during a two (2)-minute and fifteen (15)-second match.
The higher the goal in which the disc is scored, the more points the Alliance
receives.


## Rebound Rumble

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N-ktjtiKhZw). Rebound
Rumble is played by two competing alliances on a flat, 27 x 54 ft field. Each
alliance consists of three robots. They compete to score as many basketballs
into their hoops as they can during a 2 minute and 15 second match. The higher
the hoop in which the basketball is scored, the more points the alliance
receives.


## LogoMotion

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=93Tygo0_O5c). LogoMotion
is played by two competing alliances on a flat 27’ x 54’ field. Each alliance
consists of three robots. They compete to hang as many inflated plastic shapes
(triangles, circles, and squares) on their grids as they can during a two minute
and fifteen second match. The higher the teams hang their game pieces on their
scoring grid, the more points their alliance receives.


## Breakaway

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ex90Aw4PdAI). Breakaway is
a game played on a field divided into six sections by two bumps and the
centerline. Two alliances, one red and one blue, composed of three FIRST
Robotics Competition teams each, compete in each match. The object of the game
is to attain a higher score than your opponent by shooting balls into a goal,
climbing an alliance tower, or lifting an alliance robot off the playing
surface.


## Lunacy

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZnGfbGzEFrM). Lunacy is a
game played on a field known as the Crater. Two alliances, one red and one blue,
composed of three FIRST Robotics Competition teams each, compete in each match.
The objective of the game is to attain a higher score than your opponent by
placing the game pieces in the trailers hitched to the opposing alliance's
robots.


## Overdrive

[Watch the animation](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LYnUDaEi1D8). Overdrive is
played on a 27' x 54' carpeted field, where two alliances with three teams each
move around the track moving track balls. The alliance players, which are
composed of drivers, a coach, and a robocoach, are located at the end of the
field from where they control their robots. The robocoach uses the four function
Infrared Board to control the robot during Hybrid mode, giving a signal the
initiate a series of commands for the robot to complete. Robocoaches are located
at the corners of the track. The robots start against their alliance wall.
