---
title: Outreach
layout: null
---

# Outreach

According to Dean Kamen, founder of FIRST, FIRST wishes “to transform our culture
by creating a world where science and technology are celebrated and where young
people dream of becoming science and technology leaders.” In order to follow
FIRST’s vision, all participating teams are encouraged to instill an
appreciation of the real-life rewards and career opportunities to others within
their supportive community.

## <i class="first">FIRST</i> Community {#first-community}

### <i class="first">FIRST</i> Workshop {#first-workshop}

The Monta Vista Robotics Team (MVRT) held a workshop in December of 2011,
hosting nine different teams, on how we have sustained ourselves for the last
fifteen years. FIRST Coordinator Jim Beck also came to speak about additional
FIRST news and about how MVRT is truly a role model team in the bay area. We
held several different stations the different teams could go to, which included
mechanical, electrical, finance, documentation, public relations, and media.
Each of the division leads presented to a group of individuals about what their
divisions do throughout the year, and provide any helpful advice for coming
years. Each team received a comprehensive document called the FIRST Aid kit that
our team made for all FIRST teams in need.

### Beta Testing

Selected to Beta Test for the 2010 FRC Season for 10 weeks, MVRT hosted series
of workshops, held both in Cupertino and Sacramento for local FRC Teams. Mentor
Mauri Laitinen went further to host a booth at the Silicon Valley Regional,
serving as a local resource for the NI Control System.

### Mentoring Other Teams

MVRT provides help to teams around the community, in state, and out of country.
We provide help by keeping in contact with teams with email and video chats.

Here is a list of teams MVRT has mentored and started:

|----------+---------------------------------------------------|
| Kickoff  | 649, 751, 2135, 2489, 2643, 3022, 3482, 2813      |
| Workshop | 256, 670, 840, 2367, 2473, 2643, 3022, 3501, 4186 |
| Away     | 3943                                              |
|==========+===================================================|

#### Mexico

After being contacted by a rookie FRC team in Mexico, our team has been
providing them with support ever since. FIRST Team #115 has been helping FIRST
Team #3943 through support in various different areas, including registration,
competitions, and build. Because of these situations, we decided to make a
complete manual of how our team functions for easy access to all of the FIRST
teams, called the FIRST Aid Kit—which is easily accessible through our
award-winning website.

### Kickoff

MVRT hosts its own annual Kickoff every year for its members and local teams.
Aside from playing the Kickoff video streamed on NASA’s website, MVRT adds its
own twist to the Kickoff event by inviting experienced alumni as guest speakers
to have Q&A sessions to clarify game rules, provide advice for the upcoming
build season, and teach members how to manage their time wisely. In addition,
local Councilman Sinks, and EmpowerKids Foundation CEO, Vivek Kumar, spoke
during kickoff about their organization and FIRST. MVRT also provided
refreshments and facilities for guest teams who wished to stay and begin
brainstorming for the game. In 2012, MVRT’s Kickoff event hosted 8 additional
teams (a record number of teams hosted) for an audience of over two hundred.

### FLL

FLL strives to inspire engineering to middle school students by arranging teams
to build NXT Mindstorm robots that completes a series of challenges. MVRT has
been responsible for mentoring FIRST Lego League teams in Lawson Middle School
and Kennedy Middle School. MVRT also volunteers at FLL tournaments by helping as
judges of both project and robot categories. To reach out to other FLL teams, we
also created a FLL Binder on the website to help coaches start and run a team.
In 2012-2013 season 3 teams went to NorCal championships and 1 of our teams got
the highest score there. In 2013-2014 3 out of our 5 teams made it to the NorCal
championships.

### FTC

FTC (FIRST Tech Challenge) is another high school level competition that FIRST
offers. FTC works with tetrix parts to build and program a mini robot to compete
in competitions, and is considered a bridge between FLL and FRC. MVRT has
started a FTC team in Monta Vista High School to provide assistance in all
aspects of FIRST and its programs. In its rookie year, MVRT’s FTC team made it
to the semi-finals as the 7th seed team.

## Local Outreach

### School Demos

MVRT reaches out to the school community to promote STEM education and to
recruit members for the upcoming build season. We hold two robot demos for the
students during our school’s club promotion week, one robot demo for the parents
during our school’s parent’s night, and one demo to our school’s staff at the
end of the year to show what the students have been working on during the school
year. MVRT also provides mechanical help during homecoming week with its
interactive floats and decorations.

### Fall Festival Demo

At Cupertino’s annual Fall Festival we expose the next generation to the
excitement and learning experiences of FRC, FTC, and FLL. Last year, we not only
set up a booth to answer questions and display our robot, we worked closely with
the Rotary Club and other FRC Teams to recreate a Ultimate Ascent field with a
pyramid and three goals, allowing us to play a full-scale game with several
other Bay Area robotics teams. This exposed a large crowd of parents and young
children to the ideals and competition of FIRST.

### San Jose Tech Museum Demo

MVRT demoed its robot during downtown San Jose Tech Museum’s “Robot Week”. We
spoke to the museum’s staff, volunteers, and visitors about FIRST and the impact
it has on our community. We spoke to hundreds of Tech Museum guests at this
event to show the applications of science and technology that students learn.

### BAE Zero1 Art Show

MVRT was invited by BAE Systems (one of our major sponsors) to a robotics event
at San Jose Art Museum. MVRT demoed its robot with other teams in the Bay Area
and spoke to the public about FIRST and its impact on the world.

### E-Waste Drive

MVRT, in partnership with our school (Monta Vista High School), developed an
environmental project called the E-Waste Drive. People from the community
donated used electronic parts during the drive, and the school and the members
delivered it to places that could use the used parts to make other electronic
parts.

### ThinkFIRST

ThinkFIRST is an after school program at Lincoln Elementary School, and teaches
basic physics concepts to elementary school students through creative
experimentation. This program was started when the Gifted and Talented Education
(GATE) program at Lincoln Elementary School was canceled due to financial cuts.
The Monta Vista Robotics Team stepped in by providing high school student
teachers and supplies to continue the physics program. Such activities included
building marshmallow bridges to demonstrate center of gravity, mixing vinegar
and baking soda to demonstrate chemical reactions, and constructing newspaper
roller coasters to demonstrate kinetic and potential energy.

### Future Stars Robotics Program

MVRT partnered up with Future Stars, a college preparatory program for
underprivileged minority students, and two other FIRST teams (846 and 1868) to
create a robotics summer camp. We held two sessions, with each session meeting
six days in the span of two weeks to teach the engineering process, including
designing, building, programming, and testing their robots made from the NXT
LEGO Mindstorm Kit. Along the way, the students learned about center of gravity,
friction, gear ratios, and presentation skills. At the end of each session, the
teams competed with each other on a friendly competition with the FIRST Lego
League challenges.

### E-Stem

In August 2008, we supported Mike Honda’s STEM initiative and bill by speaking
at a press event and demoing our robot to an audience of over a hundred. Student
Aravindh and mentor Mr. Shinta spoke at this press event. We also demonstrated
our robot to show the importance of STEM education in our society and the
importance of the passage of the bill (which was co-authored by then Senator
Obama) Also, for the 2009 Kickoff we had a representative from the congressman's
office speak to our team and the guest teams about STEM education.

### Kwan Academy

MVRT partners with Mr. Kwan at Kwan Academy teaching K-5 students introductory
math and science concepts. Every summer MVRT members help begin the student’s
journey into the building a simple robot. MVRT teaches these concepts through
creative experimentation and various kits including the Klutz and Engino Kits
used in the summer of 2013.

### IEEE

In February of 2013, IEEE's (Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers)
Product Safety Engineering Society Chapter invited MVRT to a Robotics and Safety
workshop. There, MVRT gave an hour-long presentation on robot safety and Q&A
session for IEEE members. After the presentation, we demonstrated components of
the robot which were crucial to robot safety. The presentation was a great way
to interact with industry professionals and highlight the most important aspect
of building a robot: Safety!

## International Outreach

### Red Cross Haiyan

During the first semester of the 2013-2014, Monta Vista Robotics joined Monta
Vista Red Cross in raising awareness of the Haiyan typhoon disaster and starting
a coin drive at our school. Along with Red Cross, MVRT encouraged students to
place labeled jars in classrooms to collect coins. It was a fun and great
experience to collaborate with another club on campus to support people in need
inother countries.

### Empower Kids Foundation

EmpowerKids Foundation is a non-profit organization that aims to support
underprivileged children in rural northern India by providing them with
educational supplies. It launched its School Adoption Program in February 2010
with a specific focus on helping students from grades 3 and 4. Currently, they
are supporting 50 students in an afterschool program with school supplies and
additional teachers. Their founder, Vivek Kumar, started this program with the
goal of giving back to communities in India who have supported him in his
education. Monta Vista Robotics Team helped EmpowerKids launch its operations,
and continues to further support its initiatives. MVRT has partnered up with
Empower Kids by writing PenPal letters with the students and raising money for
the foundation through fundraisers and donations.

### Haiti One Dollar for Life

MVRT teamed up with the other clubs in our school to organize a fundraising
program for the Earthquake disaster in Haiti 2010. We advertised the event on
our website and during school. We were the top contributor to this fundraiser.

### Hope for Japan

MVRT, along with other clubs in school, organized a fundraising program for the
Tsunami/Earthquake disaster in Japan 2011. Students pledged to donate money and
were featured on our school walls. MVRT was the top contributor to this
fundraiser.

### Nepal One Dollar for Life

MVRT participated in raising money for building birthing houses for mothers in
Nepal with the entire school community. Boxes were placed in each classroom to
raise money for this event. MVRT was the top contributor to this fundraiser and
in the end, the basketball team pledged to donate money for each free throw shot
made towards the cause.

## Sponsor Involvement

### Western Digital Engineering Day

In the summer of 2013, Western Digital invited MVRT to their annual Engineering
Day. MVRT had the chance to demonstrate our robot with Team #846, The Funkey
Monkeys. Aside from the demonstration, Western Digital held a small picnic for
the invited FRC teams, and congratulated us with a certificate of appreciation.
It was a great opportunity to interact with high-tech industry professionals and
showcase our robot from Ultimate Ascent.

### BAE Systems Diversity Fair

In June 2010, MVRT visited BAE systems and demonstrated our robot for BAE
employees and got a tour of BAE facilities.

### BAE Systems/SAE Motorfest

MVRT, along with other FIRST teams, demoed its robot in BAE System’s annual
Motorfest. At this event, our members reached out to the public about FIRST and
STEM education, while learning themselves about future careers in engineering.

### BAE Toys for Tots

Monta Vista Robotics Team, along with other FIRST teams, provided the primary
volunteer force for BAE System’s Toys for Tots event. Thousands of people from
underprivileged families came to benefit from this extraordinary event.
Activities we volunteer for include picking out toys, running games, and
preparing food. MVRT also demoed our robot to promote STEM education and FIRST’s
values to the underprivileged community.

### Intuitive Surgical Demo

MVRT was invited by Intuitive Surgical Inc. to demo our robot and participate in
their mini Logomotion competition. We spoke to Intuitive Surgical employees to
promote FIRST and gain potential mentors for the FIRST community.

### Intuitive Surgical Factory Tour

MVRT members have toured the Intuitive Surgical factory for the last three
years. The students gained valuable experiences by handling professional
surgical robotics equipment produced by Intuitive Surgical, as well as insight
into how robotics could be applied to real life.

### Symantec Demo

MVRT was invited by Symantec to demonstrate our robot and give a presentation at
their intern lunch event.

### Lockheed Martin Educational Outreach Fair

MVRT was invited to the Lockheed Martin headquarters to demo its robot to
Lockheed Martin’s employees and find new mentors.

### Lockheed Martin Presentation

Lockheed Martin gave a career presentation to MVRT. Members were shown possible
jobs at Lockheed Martin that they could pursue—providing them with insight on
how they could apply the knowledge they learn in MVRT to real life.
