---
title: "Winning Woodie Flowers Award Essay 2004 Silicon Valley Regional: Mr. Ted Shinta"
layout: post
back:
  url: /resources/documents/#submissions
  name: Documents
permalink: /resources/submissions/wfa2004/
categories: ['posts']
---

Mr. Shinta's story is about wealth, riches, and accumulating and growing assets.

However, the Mr. Shinta we are talking about has a salary below median earnings.
He drives a ten-year-old white pickup truck and lives in a small apartment.

Mr. Shinta works as a teacher's assistant, but his passion is to mentor the
MVRT.

The MVRT consumes over eight hours a day, fifteen on weekends, entirely
voluntarily, and requires him to sacrifice himself even beyond the members,
mopping the floor for hours after all have left, just so they can finish
homework. What meager pay he receives from his school job he opens to the team.
We buy parts on his credit, and he only reimburses himself what the team can
afford- this year alone, he donated over $2,000, a substantial part of his
salary. By all common measures of status- money, time, freedom, Mr. Shinta has
sacrificed everything for the team.

But Mr. Shinta is not poor- he is rich. He is rich in education, in experience.
He is rich in creativity, in ingenuity. He is rich in compassion, in morality.
And most importantly, Mr. Shinta is the greatest embodiment of <i
class="first">FIRST</i> the team knows- a model for gracious professionalism and
inspiration in engineering.

Rookies, when they first enter the team, feel intimidated and discouraged by the
monumental task of building a robot. But Mr. Shinta closes the gap between
veteran and rookie through his inspiring lessons and energetic demonstrations.
Since Mr. Shinta has joined the team, every robot has featured critical
rookie-designed components. The drive train, chassis, and important mechanisms
have all been, in one year or another, entrusted to rookie members inspired by
Mr. Shinta.

Mr. Shinta's teachings have extended far beyond the build. Many of his proteges
have gone on to become great mentors. For example, under Mr. Shinta's guidance,
Patrick Wang grew from a shy, in-the-corner freshmen, to the designer of an
elaborate elevator mechanism his sophomore year, to a renowned team president
junior and senior year. Today, he passes on Mr. Shinta's teachings as a mentor
of Kehillah Robotics Team.

Mr. Shinta does not come to work each day for a paycheck, but for the robotics
team that loves him. He does not wake up at five in the morning for fun, but to
machine parts early so that he can supervise students in the afternoon. He does
not drive out to buy falafels at midnight to catch a snack, but because
vegetarian members are hungry on days when the team dinner consists of only meat
entrees.

Mr. Shinta's mentoring is also personal. He keeps track of every member's
grades, to insure that they are not falling behind in school during the build
period. To help keep their grades up, Mr. Shinta sends members home early so
that they can finish their homework. He even tutors them for free.

MVRT is a successful team with a great legacy, full of passionate, accomplished
members. But we did not get there alone. There was Mr. Shinta to teach and guide
us. Robotics is like art. Mr. Shinta hands us a full set of brushes, a beautiful
palette, and a perfectly blank canvas. That is right- Mr. Shinta does not design
the robot. He does not dictate the strategy. But Mr. Shinta taught us how to
paint.

Again, Mr. Shinta is a rich man. He is rich with the knowledge that he made a
difference in the lives of many future engineers, entrepreneurs, and scientists.
He is rich with the warmth and admiration of his team. He is rich in the
currency of life- love and happiness.
