---
title: "2007 Woodie Flowers Award Essay: Mr. Mauri Laitinen"
layout: post
back:
  url: /resources/documents/#submissions
  name: Documents
permalink: /resources/submissions/wfa2007/
categories: ['posts']
---

It is not everyday that one encounters a special person, filled with dedication,
generosity, and intelligence. This remarkable person is not only a great mentor,
but is also a great role model for team members to depend on. Joining Team 115
at a time of need two years ago, he was unknown to practically all members as
one boy had exclaimed, "Who's that old guy?" Calm yet inspirational and
innovative, Mr. Laitinen exemplifies the spirit of <i class="first">FIRST</i>
and gracious professionalism, and although he has little to say, every word is
meaningful.

Mr. Laitinen spends time, money, and effort for the robotics team he loves. Even
with a large family, he still manages to find time for robotics. His energy is
not only directed toward the team during build, but also during pre-season
training sessions. Prior to build, Mr. Laitinen eagerly taught rookies
programming and also eagerly volunteered his house for a garage sale as well as
other meetings. During build, Mr. Laitinen is indispensable and has great ideas
he is bursting to share. Although Mr. Laitinen is always eager to give
suggestions, he encourages students to think for themselves and never forces his
ideas upon them.

Promptness is one distinct quality of Mr. Laitinen. He is always the first
person to arrive and the last to leave. Whenever the team needs a part or a
piece of equipment, Mr. Laitinen immediately dashes around town diligently
searching until he can locate it, never letting the students down. Parts and
equipment are bought on his credit, until the team has money to pay him back.
Aside from engineering, Mr. Laitinen has taught the team important life skills,
such as project management, in order to have a successful robot. One important
phrase the students learned from Mr. Laitinen was that "Almost done is not
done", persuading everyone to finish the robot on time.

When the students are not at robotics, Mr. Laitinen still sits alone in the
robotics room, diligently working on the computers until it is pitch dark
outside. Even at times of frustration, Mr. Laitinen is never visibly angry. From
time to time, he has interesting stories to share. When students do not have any
means of getting home, Mr. Laitinen readily provides them with rides, even if it
is out of his way. At dinnertime, Mr. Laitinen lets all the students consume
food before taking any himself. At times when all the food had been devoured by
all the starving teenagers, Mr. Laitinen has to later buy his own meal. Clearly,
Mr. Laitinen always puts the students' interests ahead of his own, even
canceling a family trip to Tahoe just for the team.

Mr. Laitinen's advice extends beyond the boundaries of robotics. Eager to spread
the joys of engineering, Mr. Laitinen is anxious to aid other <i
class="first">FIRST</i> teams.  During competitions, he attempts to aid other
teams, such as times when teams needed spare parts or advice. Also, Mr. Laitinen
encourages students to help in Western Region Robotics Forum (WRRF), to mentor
other teams nearby, or to invite other teams to practice for competition.

Mr. Laitinen is always patient, knowledgeable, and trustworthy. He shows up not
for recognition, but for the benevolence in his heart. His presence not only
gives members a sense of security but also the magical feeling of robotics. He
will always be here for the students. Students will always look up to Mr.
Laitinen for he is here to solve problems and to help them succeed in whatever
we choose to do. He will always be in each and every student's heart and mind as
an inspiration.
